Add KB about how to shutdown a Harvester cluster (#68)
harvester/harvesterhci.io: kb/2024-07-22/harvester_cluster_shutdown_and_restart.md

---
title: Shutdown and Restart a Harvester Cluster
description: Details steps about how to shutdown a Harvester cluster and restart it.
slug: shutdown_and_restart_a_harvester_cluster
authors:
  - name: Jian Wang
    title: Staff Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/w13915984028
    image_url: https://github.com/w13915984028.png
tags: [harvester, cluster, shutdown, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Scenarios:

1. The Harvester cluster is installed with 3+ nodes.

1. The Rancher server is deoployed indepedently.

> 1. The Harvester cluster is imported to Rancher server and worked as a node dirver

Reviewer: minor typo, should be `driver`

1. Rancher deploys a couple of downstream k8s clusters, the machines/nodes of those clusters are backed by Harvester VMs.

1. There are also some traditional VMs created on Harvester cluster, they have no direct connection with Rancher server.

> You have a plan to move those Harvester nodes geographically, it is essentail to shutdown the Harvester cluster and restart later.

Author: Please take a look of the `General Principal`.

:::note

2 3 4 are optional if your Harvester cluster is mainly running as IaaS. This instruction covers all the above scenarios

:::

## 1. Precondition

### Generate a support-bundle file

> Follow [this instruction]https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/troubleshooting/harvester#generate-a-support-bundle to generate a support-bundle file.

Author: Updated.

If your VMs on Harvester are used as Rancher downstream cluster machines/nodes, and their IPs are allocated from DHCP server, also make sure those VMs will still get the same IPs after the Harvester cluster is rebooted and VMs are restarted.

## 2. Backup

### Backup all VMs if possible

It is always a good practice to backup things before a whole cluster shutdown.

### Backup downstream guest clusters if possible

Harvester doesn't touch the downstream clusters' workload, you need to consider the related backup.

## 3. Shutdown Workloads

### 3.1 Shutdown Traditional VMs

1. Shutdown VM from the VM shell (e.g. Linux `shutdown` command), the OS itself will save data to disks.

2. Check the VM status from [Harvester UI - VM page](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/troubleshooting/vm#vm-general-operations), when it is not `Off`, then click `Stop` command.

### 3.2 Shutdown Rancher downstream cluster machines(VMs)

Your Harvester cluster was [imported to Rancher](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/virtualization-management) as a [node driver](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/rancher-integration#creating-kubernetes-clusters-using-the-harvester-node-driver) before.

> When Rancher deploys a downstream cluster on node dirver Harvester, it creates a couple of VMs on Harvester automatically. Directly stopping those VMs on Harvester is not a good practice when Rancher is still managing the downstream cluster. For example, Rancher will create new VMs if you stop them from Harvester.

Reviewer: we should check with rancher team about may be leveraging the patch capi cluster spec to pause the crd: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/main/api/v1beta1/cluster_types.go#L49

one rancher may be managing multiple harvester clusters with downstream clusters spread across them. `pausing` reconcile of impacted clusters may be a better option than shutting down entire rancher cluster.

If you have got a solution to **shutdown** those downstream clusters, then check those VMs are `Off`; or there is no downstream clusters, then jump to next step [disable all addons](#32-disable-all-addons).

Unless you have already deleted all the downstream clusters which are deploy on this Harvester, **DO NOT** [remove this imported Harvester from rancher](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/virtualization-management#delete-imported-harvester-cluster). Harvester will get a different driver-id when it is imported later, but those aforementioned downstream clusters are connected to driver-id.

To safely shutdown those VMs but still keep Rancher downstream cluster `alive`, please follow the steps below:

> #### Disconnect Harvester from Rancher server

Author: Yes. To disconnect with the external Rancher server.

Scale down the `cluster-registration-agent` (on Harvester) does not work, Rancher will re-deploy them.

Another hack solution is to cheat the `cluster-registration-agent` with a none-existing image, let it stuck on `CrashLooping` :)

rancher-856f674f7d-m6s4r                     0/1     Pending       0              3d19h
...
```

Please note:

1. From now on, this Harvester is `Unavailable` on Rancher server.

![Unavailable](./imgs/harvester_unavailable_on_rancher.png)

2. The Harvester Webui returns `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable`, all following options can be done via `kubectl`.

![503 Service Temporarily Unavailable](./imgs/harvester_503_error.png)

#### Shutdown Rancher downstream cluster machines(VMs)

1. Shutdown VM from the VM shell (e.g. Linux `shutdown` command).

2. Check the `vmi` instances, if any is still `Running`, stop it.

```
harvester$ kubectl get vmi
NAMESPACE   NAME   AGE    PHASE     IP            NODENAME   READY
default     vm1    5m6s   Running   10.52.0.214   harv41     True

harvester$ virtctl stop vm1 --namespace default
VM vm1 was scheduled to stop

harvester$ kubectl get vmi -A
NAMESPACE   NAME   AGE    PHASE     IP            NODENAME   READY
default     vm1    5m6s   Running   10.52.0.214   harv41     False

harvester$ kubectl get vmi -A
No resources found

harvester$ kubectl get vm -A
NAMESPACE   NAME   AGE   STATUS    READY
default     vm1    7d    Stopped   False
```

> ### 3.3 Disable all addons

Reviewer 2: It might not be reasonable for add-ons like pcidevice controller or vm-dhcp-controller. What's the drawback without disabling all addons.

Reviewer: unless there is a specific issue, eventually addons should reconcile back on restart.

```

3. Wait until all those nodes are downs

### 4.2 Shutdown control-plane nodes

### 4.2 Shutdown the last control-plane node

## 5. Restart

### 5.1 Restart the control-plane nodes

#### Restart the leader control-plane node

Wait unitl the Harvester UI is accessable and the [leader node on Harvester UI](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/host/) is `Active`.

#### Restart the rest of control-plane nodes

Wait until all [control-plane nodes on Harvester UI](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/host/) are `Active`.

#### Check the VIP

The following `EXTERNAL-IP` should be same are the VIP of Harvester cluster.

```
harvester$ kubectl get service -n kube-system ingress-expose
NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)                      AGE
ingress-expose   LoadBalancer   10.53.50.107   192.168.122.144   443:32701/TCP,80:31480/TCP   34d
```

### 5.2 Restart the worker nodes and witness node

Wait until all [nodes on Harvester UI](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/host/) are `Active`.

### 5.3 Enable addons

Wait until they are `DepoloySuccessful`.

### 5.4 Start VMs

Wait until they are `Running`.

> ### 5.5 Restroe the Connection to Rancher server

Reviewer: minor typo: `Restore`

---
title: Shutdown and Restart a Harvester Cluster
description: Details steps about how to shutdown a Harvester cluster and restart it.
slug: shutdown_and_restart_a_harvester_cluster
authors:
  - name: Jian Wang
    title: Staff Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/w13915984028
    image_url: https://github.com/w13915984028.png
tags: [harvester, cluster, shutdown, poweroff, replacing, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Scenarios:

1. The Harvester cluster is installed with 3+ nodes.

1. The **Rancher manager/server** is deployed independently. (Hereafter it is mentioned as `Rancher manager`)

1. The Harvester cluster is imported to this Rancher manager and works as a node driver.

> 1. The Rancher manager deploys a couple of downstream k8s clusters, the machines/nodes of those clusters are backed by Harvester VMs.

Reviewer 3: Kubernetes is officially abbreviated to K8s. This should be adapted across the whole document.
```suggestion
1. The Rancher manager deploys a couple of downstream K8s clusters, the machines/nodes of those clusters are backed by Harvester VMs.
```

Needless to say, it is a bad practice to brutally power off the nodes on production environments.

## 1. Precondition

### 1.1 Generate a Support-bundle File

For trouble-shooting purpose, it is essential to follow [this instruction](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/troubleshooting/harvester#generate-a-support-bundle) to generate a support-bundle file before taking any actions. And make sure the [workload namespaces are added](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/advanced/index#support-bundle-namespaces).

### 1.2 Keep Network Stability

:::info important

Harvester cluster is built on top of Kubernetes, a general requirement is that the Node/Host IP and the cluster VIP should keep stable in the whole lifecycle, if IP changes the cluster will fail to work as expected.

If your VMs on Harvester are used as Rancher downstream cluster machines/nodes, and their IPs are allocated from DHCP server, also make sure those VMs will still get the same IPs after the Harvester cluster is rebooted and VMs are restarted.

:::

A good practice is to have detailed documents about the infrastructure related settings.

> - The bare metal server nic slot/port connections with the remote (ToR) Switches.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The bare metal server NIC slot/port connections with the remote (ToR) Switches.
```

- The VLAN for the management network.

> - (Optional) The DHCP Server, ip-pools and ip-mac bindings for the Harvester cluster if DHCP server is used. If there is no fixed ip binding, when the server restarts after some days it may get a different IP from the DHCP server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- (Optional) The DHCP Server, ip-pools and ip-mac bindings for the Harvester cluster if DHCP server is used. If there is no fixed IP binding, when the server restarts after some days it may get a different IP from the DHCP server.
```

:::note

This depends on the [auto-replace](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/cluster-configuration/rancher-server-configuration/rke2-cluster-configuration#auto-replace) and/or other options on `Rancher Manager`.

:::

If you have got a solution to **shutdown** those downstream clusters, and check those VMs are `Off`; or there is no downstream clusters, then jump to the step [disable some addons](#33-disable-some-addons).

Unless you have already deleted all the downstream clusters which are deploy on this Harvester, **DO NOT** [remove this imported Harvester from the Rancher manager](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/virtualization-management#delete-imported-harvester-cluster). Harvester will get a different driver-id when it is imported later, but those aforementioned downstream clusters are connected to driver-id.

To safely shutdown those VMs but still keep the Rancher manager managed downstream cluster `alive`, please follow the steps below:

#### Disconnect Harvester from the Rancher Manager

![Rancher and Harvester relationship](./imgs/rancher_manager_harvester.png)

:::note

> Harvester has an `embedded rancher` deployment which is used to help the lifecycle management of Harvester itself, it is different from the independently deployed **Rancher manager** for multi-cluster management and more.

Reviewer 3: To keep consistency with the wording in the following text below.
```suggestion
Harvester has an embedded `rancher` deployment which is used to help the lifecycle management of Harvester itself, it is different from the independently deployed **Rancher manager** for multi-cluster management and more.
```

Author: As this operation also touches the external Rancher server, which is referred as `Rancher manager`; to distinguish from it as explicitily as possbile, the Harvester's internal rancher is called and highlighted as `embedded rancher`.

:::

> The `cattle-cluster-agent-***` pod is the [direct connection between Rancher manager and Harvester cluster](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/virtualization-management#importing-harvester-cluster), and this pod is monitored and managed by the `embedded rancher` in Harvester, scaling down this pod does not work. The `embedded rancher` will scale it up automatically.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure how to handle the `embedded rancher` wording here. Is it about the deployment or the embedded `Rancher` product. i think the answer influences how `embedded rancher` is to be treated/adapted in the following course of the text.

Run steps below to suspend the connection.

All following CLI commands are executed upon **Harvester** cluster.

> 1. Set the `management.cattle.io/scale-available` of `deployment rancher` to be `""` instead of `"3"` or other values.

Reviewer 3: Maybe use the same wording here as some lines below.
```suggestion
1. Set the `management.cattle.io/scale-available` of `rancher` deployment to be `""` instead of `"3"` or other values.
```

longhorn-system   pvc-5cf00ae2-e85e-413e-a4f1-8bc4242d4584   v1            detached   unknown                  2147483648             13d
longhorn-system   pvc-620358ca-94b3-4bd4-b008-5c144fd815c9   v1            attached   healthy                  2147483648    harv41   8d    // still attached and in use
longhorn-system   pvc-8174f05c-919b-4a8b-b1ad-4fc110c5e2bf   v1            detached   unknown                  10737418240            13d
```

## 4. Shutdown Nodes

Get all nodes from Harvester WebUI [Host Management](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/host/).

From CLI:

```
harvester$ kubectl get nodes -A
NAME     STATUS   ROLES                       AGE   VERSION
harv2    Ready    <none>                      24d   v1.27.10+rke2r1  // worker node
harv41   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1  // control-plane node
harv42   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1  // control-plane node
harv43   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1  // control-plane node

```

### 4.1 Shutdown the Worker Nodes

> 1. Ssh to the Harvester `worker nodes`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. SSH to the Harvester `worker nodes`.
```

2. Run command `sudo -i shutdown`.

```
$ sudo -i shutdown

Shutdown scheduled for Mon 2024-07-22 06:58:56 UTC, use 'shutdown -c' to cancel.
```

> 3. Wait until all those nodes are downs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Wait until all those nodes are down
```

### 4.2 Shutdown Control-plane Nodes and Witness Node

> To now, there are generally three control-plane nodes left, and three `etcd-*` pods are running in `kube-system` namespaces.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So far, there are generally three control-plane nodes left, and three `etcd-*` pods are running in `kube-system` namespaces.
```

harv43   Ready      etcd                         1d    v1.27.10+rke2r1  // witness node

+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
|           ENDPOINT           |        ID        | VERSION | DB SIZE | IS LEADER | IS LEARNER | RAFT TERM | RAFT INDEX | RAFT APPLIED INDEX | ERRORS |
+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
| https://192.168.122.141:2379 | c70780b7862269c9 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |     false |       true |        46 |    6538829 |            6538829 |        |
| https://192.168.122.142:2379 | db04095b49eb5352 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |     false |       true |        46 |    6538829 |            6538829 |        |
| https://192.168.122.143:2379 | a21534d02463b347 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |      true |      false |        46 |    6538829 |            6538829 |        |
+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
```

> Run `kubectl delete pod -n kube-system etcd-name` command to delete the etcd pod on the `witness node` to trigger the pod replacement and leader re-election so that the `etcd` leader will be located on one of the `control-plane` nodes. Check the `etcd` leader again to make sure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run `kubectl delete pod -n kube-system etcd-name` command to delete the `etcd` pod on the `witness node` to trigger the pod replacement and leader re-election so that the `etcd` leader will be located on one of the `control-plane` nodes. Check the `etcd` leader again to make sure.
```

```
+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
|           ENDPOINT           |        ID        | VERSION | DB SIZE | IS LEADER | IS LEARNER | RAFT TERM | RAFT INDEX | RAFT APPLIED INDEX | ERRORS |
+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
| https://192.168.122.141:2379 | c70780b7862269c9 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |      true |      false |        47 |    6538833 |            6538833 |        |
| https://192.168.122.142:2379 | db04095b49eb5352 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |     false |       true |        47 |    6538833 |            6538833 |        |
| https://192.168.122.143:2379 | a21534d02463b347 |   3.5.9 |   34 MB |     false |       true |        47 |    6538833 |            6538833 |        |
+------------------------------+------------------+---------+---------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+--------------------+--------+
```

To now, the `etcd` has three running instances and the leader is located on the `control-plane` node.

:::info important

> Write down the information of those nodes like name, ip, and the leader. Ideally give them a sequence like 1, 2, 3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Write down the information of those nodes like name, IP, and the leader. Ideally give them a sequence like 1, 2, 3.
```

:::

Shutdown the two `IS LEADER == false` nodes one by one.

```
harvester-node-shell$ sudo -i shutdown
```

### 4.3 Shutdown the Last Control-plane Node

Shutdown the last `IS LEADER == true` node. Remember its physical information for restarting it first in the steps below.

```
harvester-last-node-shell$ sudo -i shutdown
```

## 5. Restart

If the Harvester cluster has been moved to a new location, or has been off for days, or your infrastructure has changes, check and test the [network stability](#12-keep-network-stability).

### 5.1 Restart the Control-plane Nodes and the Witness Node

The first step is to start those `etcd` located nodes one after another.

#### Restart the Leader Control-plane Node

> Power on the [last shutdown node](#43-shutdown-the-last-control-plane-node) first. After about three minutes, continue the next step.

Reviewer 3: > After about three minutes, continue the next step.

Does it make sense to use a time specification here? I think that the user's hardware is decisive in determining how long it takes. Is there not a possibility to execute a CLI command to check the status?

When you check the `etcd` pod log on this node, the following message may be observed.

```
sent MsgPreVote request to db04095b49eb5352 at term 5

"msg":"prober detected unhealthy status","round-tripper-name":"ROUND_TRIPPER_RAFT_MESSAGE","remote-peer-id":"db04095b49eb5352","rtt":"0s","error":"dial tcp 192.168.122.142:2380: connect: no route to host"

```

The `etcd` is wating for the other two members to be online and then vote a leader.

#### Restart the Rest of Control-plane Nodes and the Witness Node

Power on the rest nodes which also hosted the `etcd` pod before.

Wait until all the three control-plane nodes or possibly two control-plane and one witness nodes are `Ready`.

From CLI:

```
harvester$ kubectl get nodes -A
NAME     STATUS   ROLES                       AGE   VERSION
harv41   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1
harv42   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1
harv43   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1

```

The `etcd` forms a quorum and can tolerant the failure of one node.

:::note

> If the `embedded rancher` was not scaled down before, this step can also be:

Reviewer 3: Based on the previous decision (see above), this should also be adjusted here.
E.g. embedded `Rancher` or embedded `rancher`, ...

This also applies to the following steps.

:::

#### Check the VIP

The following `EXTERNAL-IP` should be the same as the VIP of the Harvester cluster.

```
harvester$ kubectl get service -n kube-system ingress-expose
NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)                      AGE
ingress-expose   LoadBalancer   10.53.50.107   192.168.122.144   443:32701/TCP,80:31480/TCP   34d
```

### 5.2 Restart the Worker Nodes

Wait until all nodes are `Ready`.

From CLI:

```
harvester$ kubectl get nodes -A
NAME     STATUS   ROLES                       AGE   VERSION
harv2    Ready    <none>                      24d   v1.27.10+rke2r1  // worker node
harv41   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1
harv42   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1
harv43   Ready    control-plane,etcd,master   54d   v1.27.10+rke2r1

```

### 5.3 Enable Addons

Enable those previously disabled addons, wait until they are `DepoloySuccessful`.

### 5.4 Restore the Connection to the Rancher Manager

Run following 1, 2 commands on the Harvester cluster.

> 1. Set the `management.cattle.io/scale-available` of `rancher deployment` to be the value recorded on the above steps.

Reviewer 3: Previously the following was used or see below at 

> 2. Scale up the `rancher` deployment on Harvester cluster.

```suggestion
1. Set the `management.cattle.io/scale-available` of `rancher` deployment to be the value recorded on the above steps.
```

tags: [harvester, cluster, shutdown, poweroff, replacing, rancher]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Scenarios:

1. The Harvester cluster is installed with 3+ nodes.

1. The **Rancher manager/server** is deployed independently. (Hereafter it is mentioned as `Rancher manager`)

1. The Harvester cluster is imported to this Rancher manager and works as a node driver.

1. The Rancher manager deploys a couple of downstream K8s clusters, the machines/nodes of those clusters are backed by Harvester VMs.

1. There are also some traditional VMs deployed on the Harvester cluster, which have no direct connection with the Rancher manager.

You plan to move those Harvester nodes geographically, or to power off the whole cluster for some time, it is essential to shutdown the Harvester cluster and restart later.

:::note

2 3 4 are optional if your Harvester cluster is mainly running as an IaaS component. This instruction covers all the above scenarios.

:::

## General Principle

To safely shutdown a Harvester cluster, you need to follow the roughly reverse order of the cluster installation and the workload deployments.

Those facts need to be taken into account particularly:

> 1. The common methodology of kubernetes operator/controller is to try things continuously until they meet expectations. When the cluster is shutting down node by node, if you don't stop those workloads in advance, they will try hard until the last node is off. It causes the last few nodes to have heavy CPU/memory/network/storage usage and increases the chance of data corruption.

Reviewer 3: Write `Kubernetes` in upper case. There are several places spread across the document you need to adapt as well.

1. Each Harvester node has limited capacity of CPU/memory/network/storage and the max-pod-number, when all workloads are crowded on the last few nodes, the unexpected pod eviction, scheduling failure and other phenomena may happen.

1. Harvester has embedded Longhorn as the default CSI driver, each PV can have 3 or more replicas, when replicas are rescheduled to other nodes, Longhorn will copy data from source node and rebuild the replica. Undoubtedly, stop the PVs as much as possible before the cluster shutdown to avoid the data moving.

> 1. Unlike normal kubernetes deployments which have no PVs and are more flexible & agile to deploy anywhere on the cluster, the VMs are backed by massive sized PVs, slowly to move/migrate or even pinned on certain nodes to take the advantage of pci-passthrough/vgpu/... and are much more sensitive to data consistency.

Reviewer 3: Change `pci-passthrough/vgpu/` to `PCI-passthrough/vGPU/`. I'm sorry, im pettifogging about such things 😂

:::note

This depends on the [auto-replace](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/reference-guides/cluster-configuration/rancher-server-configuration/rke2-cluster-configuration#auto-replace) and/or other options on `Rancher Manager`.

:::

If you have got a solution to **shutdown** those downstream clusters, and check those VMs are `Off`; or there is no downstream clusters, then jump to the step [disable some addons](#33-disable-some-addons).

Unless you have already deleted all the downstream clusters which are deploy on this Harvester, **DO NOT** [remove this imported Harvester from the Rancher manager](https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/rancher/virtualization-management#delete-imported-harvester-cluster). Harvester will get a different driver-id when it is imported later, but those aforementioned downstream clusters are connected to driver-id.

To safely shutdown those VMs but still keep the Rancher manager managed downstream cluster `alive`, please follow the steps below:

#### Disconnect Harvester from the Rancher Manager

![Rancher and Harvester relationship](./imgs/rancher_manager_harvester.png)

:::note

> Harvester has an `embedded rancher` deployment which is used to help the lifecycle management of Harvester itself, it is different from the independently deployed **Rancher manager** for multi-cluster management and more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Harvester has an `embedded Rancher` deployment which is used to help the lifecycle management of Harvester itself, it is different from the independently deployed **Rancher manager** for multi-cluster management and more.
```

Run steps below to suspend the connection.

All following CLI commands are executed upon **Harvester** cluster.

1. Set the `management.cattle.io/scale-available` of `deployment rancher` to be `""` instead of `"3"` or other values.

This change will stop the auto-scaling.

```
harvester$ kubectl edit deployment -n cattle-system rancher
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  annotations:
...
    management.cattle.io/scale-available: "3"  // record this value, and change it to ""
...
  generation: 16
  labels:
    app: rancher
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: Helm
...
  name: rancher
  namespace: cattle-system
```

2. Scale down the `rancher` deployment.

```
harvester$ kubectl scale deployment -n cattle-system rancher --replicas=0
deployment.apps/rancher scaled

harvester$ get deployment -n cattle-system rancher
NAME      READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
rancher   0/0     0            0           33d
```

> 3. Make sure the rancher pods are gone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Make sure the `rancher-*` pods are gone.
```
